New section: Agentic transactions on XRPL (#3663)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: .claude/skills/xrpl-skills/xrpl-payments/references/payments.md

# Payments, Escrow & Agentic Patterns

## Account Setup

### Generate and fund a testnet wallet

```python
from xrpl.clients import JsonRpcClient
from xrpl.wallet import generate_faucet_wallet

TESTNET_URL = "https://s.altnet.rippletest.net:51234"
client = JsonRpcClient(TESTNET_URL)

wallet = generate_faucet_wallet(client, debug=True)
print(f"Address : {wallet.address}")

> print(f"Seed    : {wallet.seed}")  # store securely — never hardcode

Reviewer: This code contradicts the directions from the wallet skill to never print seed phrases.

Author: Good point. However, in this case, the code is generating a new Testnet faucet wallet, and users will need the wallet address and seed to save for future use. Any suggestion on how we could handle this?

Reviewer: When I was testing it out (loaded both payment and wallet skill), the wallet skill took over and got around this by saving it to an env file and pointed me to it. Wallet skill explicitly forbid it from ever echoing seed phrases, even for test accounts.

Is this skill intended to be totally functional on its own? Wallet handling AND transaction handling? The getting started guide makes it sound like the intended architecture splits that responsibility between the two skills, but then the actual skills kind of muddle responsibilities by having a wallet section within payment skills too.

Author: Revised skills and tutorial to clarity scope for both skills.

| `tel...` | No | Local error (not broadcast) | `telINSUF_FEE_P` (fee too low) |
| `tem...` | No | Malformed transaction | `temBAD_AMOUNT`, `temBAD_CURRENCY` |
| `ter...` | No | Retry — transient error | `terQUEUED` (transaction queued) |

**Checking results in code:**

```python
result_code = response.result["meta"]["TransactionResult"]
if result_code == "tesSUCCESS":
    tx_hash = response.result["hash"]
elif result_code.startswith("tec"):
    # Fee was charged. Log and handle gracefully.
    raise RuntimeError(f"Transaction failed (fee charged): {result_code}")
else:
    # No fee charged. Safe to retry after fixing the issue.
    raise RuntimeError(f"Transaction rejected: {result_code}")
```

---

## Reserve Requirements

Every XRPL account must maintain a minimum XRP balance (the base reserve) plus an incremental reserve per ledger object it owns. Agents must account for this or risk `tecINSUF_RESERVE_LINE` and `tecUNFUNDED_PAYMENT` errors.

| Object | Reserve cost |
|--------|-------------|
| Account activation | 10 XRP base reserve |
| Each trust line | +2 XRP owner reserve |
| Each escrow | +2 XRP owner reserve |
| Each open offer (DEX) | +2 XRP owner reserve |

> | Each payment channel | +2 XRP owner reserve |

Reviewer: These fees are outdated. Base reserve is 1 XRP and incremental owner reserves is .2 XRP.

Author: Updated

# Payments, Escrow & Agentic Patterns

> **Architecture note — who submits.** In the two-skill setup, this Payments
> skill *constructs* the transaction object; the **XRPL Agent Wallet skill**
> owns the final steps — autofill, human preview, local signing, and
> `submitAndWait`. The `submit_and_wait` / `submitAndWait` (and the `autofill`
> in the simulate example) shown below are included so each snippet runs
> standalone for a developer exploring the API. In the agentic flow, stop at
> object construction and hand the object to the Wallet skill instead of calling
> `submit_and_wait` yourself. See the Wallet skill for the signing ceremony.

## The build -> hand-off flow

This is the shape of every agentic payment in the two-skill setup: this skill
builds the object and stops; the Wallet skill does everything after.

```python
# 1. This skill: construct the transaction object.
from xrpl.models.transactions import Payment
from xrpl.utils import xrp_to_drops

payment = Payment(
    account=wallet.address,
    destination="rDestinationAddress",
    amount=xrp_to_drops(25),

>     source_tag=AGENT_SOURCE_TAG,

Reviewer: I know technically we're saying payment constructs the object, but I think we should shift `SourceTag` info to the wallet skill since it's a universal thing we want every agentic tx submission to have. This saves us from having to remember to add it in for future skills.

# Hex-encoded currency code — "RLUSD" in ASCII padded to 40 hex chars
RLUSD_CURRENCY = "524C555344000000000000000000000000000000"

# Issuer addresses — confirm before production use
RLUSD_ISSUER_TESTNET = "rQhWct2fv4Vc4KRjRgMrxa8xPN9Zx9iLKV"  
RLUSD_ISSUER_MAINNET = "rMxCKbEDwqr76QuheSUMdEGf4B9xJ8m5De"  
```

```typescript
const RLUSD_CURRENCY = "524C555344000000000000000000000000000000";

> const RLUSD_ISSUER_TESTNET = "rQhWct2fv4Vc4KRjRgMrxa8xPN9Zx9iLKV"; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const RLUSD_ISSUER_TESTNET = "rQhWct2fv4Vc4KRjRgMrxa8xPN9Zx9iLKV";
const RLUSD_ISSUER_MAINNET = "rMxCKbEDwqr76QuheSUMdEGf4B9xJ8m5De";
```

# Issuer addresses — confirm before production use
RLUSD_ISSUER_TESTNET = "rQhWct2fv4Vc4KRjRgMrxa8xPN9Zx9iLKV"

> RLUSD_ISSUER_MAINNET = "rMxCKbEDwqr76QuheSUMdEGf4B9xJ8m5De" # Verify at https://ripple.com/rlusd before production use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RLUSD_ISSUER_MAINNET = "rMxCKbEDwqr76QuheSUMdEGf4B9xJ8m5De" # Verify at [docs.ripple.com](https://docs.ripple.com/products/stablecoin/developer-resources/rlusd-on-the-xrpl)
```
The ripple.com/rlusd URL leads to a 404

Reviewer: This still needs to be updated.

// Issuer addresses — confirm before production use
const RLUSD_ISSUER_TESTNET = "rQhWct2fv4Vc4KRjRgMrxa8xPN9Zx9iLKV";

> const RLUSD_ISSUER_MAINNET = "rMxCKbEDwqr76QuheSUMdEGf4B9xJ8m5De"; // Verify at https://ripple.com/rlusd before production use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const RLUSD_ISSUER_MAINNET = "rMxCKbEDwqr76QuheSUMdEGf4B9xJ8m5De"; // Verify at [docs.ripple.com](https://docs.ripple.com/products/stablecoin/developer-resources/rlusd-on-the-xrpl)
```
